[music]
>> MLB, NBA, NFL. Do you think in our
lifetime, the three of us, there will
ever be institutional capital that takes
full control of one of those 92 teams?
>> Within these three leagues, it will
happen in our lifetime, but there needs
to be substantial infrastructure and
real estate adjacency to justify these
valuations. Otherwise, these valuations
are going to turn out to be probably too
high.
>> [music]
>> All right, Alex. We're back at Bloomberg
Invest. Massive conversation [music]
on stage live taping of the deal with
Alan Waxman, co-founder and CEO of Sixth
Street Partners. They own across lots of
sports, but I know there's one deal
you're especially interested in.
>> I am, and that's [music] his acquisition
of a minority stake of the New England
Patriots. And I want to know how he
cracked the code with Robert and
Jonathan Kraft, who are on Mount
Rushmore of my ownership groups.
>> He's also done deals across soccer,
basketball, and baseball. So, I've a
prediction, you guys are going to fix
baseball.
>> Okay, let's go.
>> let's do it.
>> Please welcome to the stage Alan Waxman
for a live taping of The Deal with
Bloomberg's Jason Kelly and Alex
Rodriguez.
>> Alan Waxman, great to see you. I I want
to set the table a little bit
and talk about Sixth Street, uh your
firm, because I think it's hard to
understand, Alex, the context of what
you're doing in sports without
understanding
the context of the firm and and even
some of what's going on in the world
right now. So,
30 seconds,
give or take,
what's the Sixth Street investing ethos?
>> Complete flexibility.
We invest across from day one built the
firm to invest across asset classes,
geographies,
sectors. Where's the best relative risk
reward? And we do that by having a a
team and a culture of people who that
are over themselves, no egos, no BS, no
politics, no fiefdoms. We built our
architecture to be an investor first
architecture, so we didn't build it to
raise the bigger and biggest funds. We
raised smaller strategy funds so that we
raised those funds to the size of the
opportunity and then we have extensive
capabilities. And that's how we built
our firm from day one that allows us to
look across ecosystems and to find the
best themes and the best opportunities.
>> Wachs, you were one of the early early
movers in sports and you saw this early.
Uh you made that early acquisition uh
getting into the San Antonio Spurs right
after COVID.
But as a co-owner today, I have my Mount
Rushmore of owners and two that sit
right on top of that list are Robert and
Jonathan Kraft. I am fascinated by this
deal. How did it start? Do you call
Robert? Does Jonathan call you? Walk us
through it.
>> First of all,
I I spoke to Robert and Jonathan before
this and they speak so highly of Alex.
So, you've got some big fans there.
>> My name didn't come up, just
>> [laughter]
>> for the record, but go on.
>> So,
so by the way, Jason super talented too.
>> Yeah,
thank you. I really appreciate that.
>> to a lot of people before this and they
they said they're super talented too.
Look, this all starts so we went through
just contacts. The NFL didn't allow
private equity or private capital cuz we
don't really think of ourselves as a
private equity firm, but they didn't
allow institutional investors. So, the
NFL ran this big process. Some might say
it was a proctology exam and you go
through a process where they're trying
to select, you know, two, three, four
people that have sort of a golden key to
invest in the NFL. But coming out of
that process, the CFO, I don't think
I've ever told this story publicly, but
the CFO of the NFL, Joe Sinclair, just
after we got approved, basically sent me
an email and said, "Hey,
you know, and he was kind of the front
lines of their due diligence on us and
others." And he said, "Hey, have you
ever met Robert and Jonathan Kraft? I
think you culturally would get along
with them. You should meet them.
And they weren't, you know, looking to
do, you know, minority equity
investment. So, he connected us. We got
together and I'm summarizing this, but
literally instantaneously
it almost felt like family where we had
alignment on team values, team culture,
and clarity of purpose, which obviously
you see the results of what the New
England Patriots have done, but we don't
see it's all the little things, those
micro things they did in terms of
running the organization.
And we just clicked right away. And
that's, by the way, consistent when you
look at all the other sports teams we've
invested in, they're all global
champions. Real Madrid, Barcelona, San
Francisco Giants,
San Antonio Spurs, Boston Celtics. Like,
there's a there's a there's a theme
here. But the one common denominator
between all of them is alignment on
culture, values, and clarity of purpose.
>> a quick follow-up on that for you ask.
So, once you get through all the hugging
and family and alignment, alignment and
pricing. Does that Do they say nine, do
you say six? Do they say Does it go back
and forth? Or is that more here's what
we're looking for, you you agree?
>> The the way that we do business and the
way that I think the Krafts do business,
both Robert and Jonathan, is this is a
long-term relationship. And the last
thing you want to do in getting a
partner is a back and forth It's It's
you kind of know what's fair and you're
just trying to solve for fairness. And
it was a very short conversation and we
agreed on it. We got in business
together. But you can just tell, by the
way, it's not just sports, any company
we invest in, you can get a sense when
you're in the meeting, you're watching
the way they treat their employees, the
way they treat junior people. You know,
you talk to different people in the
company or the teams. Are they all
saying the same things? Are they saying
seven different things? And you can tell
by just meeting everyone what those
culture what that culture is, what the
values are, and obviously do they have
clarity of purpose.
>> And so let's talk about investing in the
NFL because you you rightly pointed out
this was a long process. The NFL was
really the last of the the major North
American leagues and and almost any
league in the world to really embrace
institutional capital. But what was it
about this particular deal financially
and and as you
figured out how to underwrite this and
did the diligence, what was it about
this franchise and this sport that made
it a compelling investment as a minority
shareholder, no rights. I mean this this
is you're you're in it, but
they're running it.
>> Look, the first thing is like what's the
durability of the league, what's the
leadership of the league? They're A
plus. Like all you have to do is spend
time with Roger.
>> Roger Goodell.
>> Yeah, I mean he sorry, Roger Goodell. I
mean he's
and the people below him, the owner,
it's it's a world-class organization.
When you get into sort of the market,
you know, the the Boston sports market,
we're also the Boston Celtics, like it's
a great sports market, it's a great fan
base, and look, I think with all the
>> You are in New York just just as a
reminder.
>> New York's [laughter] a great
>> Red Sox are next.
>> way,
by the way, we're partners with the New
York Yankees and they're they're great
fan base, too. It's not exclusive.
Everyone's got their own cultures, but
um
look, I think at the end of the day like
for us like
the league itself, the durability of the
league, the international expansion
opportunities, the fact that just
all these brands historically, if you go
back 20 years ago, these brands were a
local brands. Do you have to get the
local right? But once you have the local
right, the global opportunity for all
these brands, like take Wemby, like
we're investing in the San Antonio
Spurs. I went last year when they were
playing in Paris. It was literally like
an NBA Finals game. So you just turned
on an entire country, and that's
happening all over the place in the NFL,
those opportunities the international
opportunities are the same. So, look for
us it was pretty easy. But again, this
wasn't a competitive process. It was a
handshake, it was a set of
relationships. And that's how almost all
of our deals have happened in the sports
ecosystem.
>> How do you think private equity, private
capital
has performed so far? What has it been
about what you thought it would be in
terms of the uptake from the teams, the
uptake from the funds? Like where is it
now? Where does it go next?
>> I think it's happened about
kind of what we'd expect.
>> Cuz it's been fairly minimal.
>> Yeah, I think about what what we
what we would expect. I think the
challenge is and this is why I think
there's an important delineation between
private equity and private capital.
>> Yeah.
>> Because a lot of private equity capital,
the liability or the fund structures,
you have to sell the asset in 5 to 7
years.
That is a terrible
That is a terrible idea for investing in
sports team whether it's a control or
minority. So, our our vehicle, we have
very patient capital, which is why I
think there's a That really matters. You
know, a lot of these guys owning these
teams, they don't they don't they don't
have to sell. Like they don't have to do
anything and some of them just want good
good partners. So, it's kind of happened
what I expect. I would expect over time
evaluations continue to increase. It's
just going to continue to grow. But and
this is really I think the next wave of
sports is
there needs to be substantial
infrastructure and real estate adjacency
investment to justify these valuations.
Otherwise, these valuations are going to
turn out to be in a lot of cases, not
all cases, probably too high.
>> Yeah, I got one more in the NFL just cuz
it's such a juggernaut. Uh do you want
to go first?
>> No, I I I want to go first.
>> when you guys flow.
I love when you guys flow.
>> We're like a married couple.
>> Okay. Anyways, [laughter]
Wax, when you think about
the NFL is such a juggernaut and when
you look at just P&L and you dig down
into just the thesis of an investment,
right? Is it when you look at an NFL
team, is it the market? Is it scarcity,
appreciation, cash flow? What are the
things that excites you in Sixth Street
about deploying capital in football?
>> I think it's it's all those things
there's it's scarcity. Obviously
different markets matter, ownership,
culture, values, clarity of purpose that
matters, but again, you know, it doesn't
take a long time. If you look at every
youth in the world, everyone's picking
up their phone all the time. AI is just
going to continue to consume people's
time and I think the other thing is that
the sort of exporting of sports,
particularly global brands in other
markets is going to continue to increase
and I think again, I think that's an
opportunity for the NFL.
>> It's interesting to to think about your
>> Can I ask you guys what what do you guys
>> Ask any question.
>> Flip
>> [laughter]
>> Flip that question Flip that question
around. What how would you guys You guys
talked a lot of smart people. How would
you guys answer that?
>> Underwriting the NFL?
>> Yeah.
>> I I mean
I'll answer because you
prodded me into it. It's really hard to
do. Um
I mean I think that the point you made
about the international opportunity, I
think is one that was under appreciated
for a long time with the NFL and I think
even the NFL didn't quite fully
appreciate what the market was
and I think as it's invested more and
more, you know, I did a piece about um
Shad Khan of the Jaguars um and and
Fulham FC
uh a few years ago and understanding
through his eyes, he was obviously a
pioneer with the London uh based games.
I think that international piece, I mean
I know you spent a lot of time with
Roger Goodell and others. I mean that
that seems to be the real growth market
in terms of both fans and and really the
technology is such and I think you
and we'll talk about this I think in the
NBA section, too.
Um
the if you can truly globalize American
football, I mean
good lord.
>> Here's what I can tell you with fact.
There's excess demand
for sports teams internationally in
sports in cities that want to bring NFL
games
to their markets.
>> Yeah.
>> So, not to dodge your question. So, it's
kind of the things that I talked about
that I really like about the NFL is the
market is very important. The scarcity.
Now, think about if you're in real
estate and there's only 32 beachfront
properties and you own one of them. So,
I would think about that. The
combination of appreciation and cash
flow, it's very rare in sports and to
have that like a moat that you can
actually underwrite it and it's like A
paper as A paper can get cuz obviously
the national TV deal that's going to get
probably richer here. And then I would
say I would over index in leadership and
I think Roger Goodell is best in class
as good as they get as far as
commissioner. And then when you have a
guy like Robert Kraft and Jonathan, that
makes it cuz at the end of the days,
forget what the numbers say, you still
have to be in partners with families.
It's like a marriage. And that's how I
would look at it.
>> 100 [snorts] 100% and I'd say across the
NFL, there's some great owners across
the NFL.
>> All right, you want to talk some hoop?
>> Sure.
>> All right. The NBA is interesting and
you have such a fascinating lens here,
Waks, because you went into the Spurs 6
years ago, five five and change. Um and
then you go into the Celtics, you know,
a number of years later. The valuation
differential alone i- is massive. How
did the opportunity evolve? How did it
change as you've sort of seen the NBA 5
6 years ago and the NBA today from a
business perspective?
>> From an institutional investor
standpoint?
Well, first of all, we were one of the
first I think we're the first or the
second institutional investor in the NBA
where, you know, the San Antonio Spurs,
we just literally they changed the rules
and we cold cold called the San Antonio
Spurs. So, it was not
>> just picked up the phone and you're
like, "RCB, I've heard like, you know,
like, what's up, bro?"
>> To be fair, it's my colleague Austin
Bowers picked up the phone and that's
what we do. Like, we just picked up the
phone. I grew up in Austin, so we had a
view on Austin-San Antonio view, but uh
that was different.
>> people are like, "Ooh, cold calling.
Okay, I'm going to do that. Go ahead."
>> Don't be afraid. Just be really a real
person and just
ask your questions. You'll be fine. Um
sorry, that No one That was unsolicited
>> [laughter]
>> uh whoever was talking in the audience,
but uh so look, I think back then, I
mean, that was in the middle of COVID,
so very different environment. I mean,
these, you know, revenue had gone to a
zero for a lot of for a lot of these
teams or significantly reduced. So, very
different environment. It's I would say
it's maturing. There's more people that
are obviously getting into it. So, it's
I'd say that the competitive landscape
is different. So, that that's different,
but on the other hand
>> Competitive landscape from an investor
perspective.
>> There's just more capital, which is a
good thing. This There's the
gentrification of the asset class. Like,
we we were always interested in
investing in sports. It's themes are
only as good if it's investable. Maybe
in public market In public markets, you
can express a theme, but private
markets, you can have the best theme in
the world, but if it's not investable,
then it's a waste of time. And COVID
made it investable. So, that really
opened it up and started gentrify.
Today, it's very different. First of
all, we're at the beginning of a new
media deal. So, there's massive re-rate.
So, that's different, but there's also a
lot more capital, but again, the
international opportunity in the NBA
it's massive. You look at the
demographics. You look at the number of
NBA players that are from different
countries. And again, it takes one
player on one team from one country to
come open up that country. And open up
that country in terms of in possible
engagement of new, you know, fans.
>> Was that similar to you? Is that what
you guys saw in 20
>> Yeah.
>> We came in around the same time,
brother. It's after COVID, which was a
very scary time. I remember my mom
saying, "What are you doing? Like, you
have the Disney bubble, these stadiums.
Are you going to go crazy? You shouldn't
have do this." I said, "Mom, I think I'm
okay." She made me think a little bit.
But, what's exciting about the NBA as we
saw it, like as you look at where we are
today in 2026, the last eight MVPs have
been non-Americans. And then, when you
think about the global footprint that
Waks is talking about and the
opportunity, I think we're really in the
early innings of what what we're going
to go as the NBA. So, it's very
exciting.
>> It's interesting as we think back over
the Let's just make it about us for a
second. As we think back over the course
of this show's history, one of our
earliest guests was Brandi Chastain, you
know, one of your um co-owners in BayFC.
And what was so interesting for us who
followed this so closely as a business,
your investment in BayFC, that an
expansion team at the time, was radical
and new because you were the first
institutional fund that was allowed to
become a control owner of a major US
sports team. Tell us a little bit about
that deal from your per- We sort of
heard the Brandi perspective, you know,
sort of coming in as a player, but this
is This is new territory at that time
for a fund.
>> Never have we made an investment where
people thought we were crazy. But, from
our standpoint, it's one of the most
asymmetric investments we've ever made.
So, just for context,
the original the last expansion fee
before we bought BayFC was, I think,
three or four million dollars.
And we paid 53 million dollars in a two
or three years later. So, people thought
we were crazy, but what got us on the
NWSL initially is my at the time
9-year-old daughter, she was on her
iPad, and she she was watching an NWSL
game, and I was like, "Huh, that's
that's kind of interesting." So, look,
through prodding, you know, uh through
uh
a number of people around the ecosystem,
like, "You should take a look at this.
So, and I'm summarizing, there's a lot
There's a lot my wife is involved, so
she was proud of me cuz she thought this
was a great investment opportunity.
She's much smarter than I am, by the
way, applied mathematics major. But,
we started studying it and we looked at
the market and at the time, like, a lot
of the a lot of the the sponsorship
revenue was in sort of the impact
bucket. It wasn't in the CMO bucket. So,
the chief marketing officer versus the
impact bucket. And that was just a major
major opportunity for us because we knew
people were watching. And it's actually
the only time in my entire investment
career where I actually printed our
investment thesis. I put it out there
publicly. It's the first time and only
time we've ever done that because I
thought it was so asymmetric and
>> You can find it on LinkedIn. I mean, it
was a very popular LinkedIn post.
>> never and I'm not a big social media I
don't even have social media, but we put
it out there because we thought just for
people to understand and sure enough,
you know, now everyone's talking about
it and we're we're still at the early
stages, but again, it's not going to be
linear the growth, but it's it's been a
good investment for us.
>> Well, and and to be clear, I mean, if
you think about where the valuations
have gone, where the expansion fees have
gone, you know, literally a year ago, we
were sitting on the equivalent of this
stage. I think we were actually
downstairs with Melody Hobson. She paid
substantially more for the Denver
expansion franchise. I think
four times more
than you did to build in Denver and
obviously Will Ferrell has been, I
guess, in the show as well.
You know, she bought Angel City at a
valuation of 250. So, clearly it's going
up.
>> It goes to anything. Ultimately,
investing is about supply and demand.
Like, it could be the best thing in the
world, but if there's excess supply of
capital, I By the way, this might rhyme
with private credit. Excess supply
capital and low demand low demand,
that's not going to work out well. But,
The thing going back to what you said,
Alex, is these are scarce assets. So,
there's valuable pieces of real estate,
and as you start to sell expansion
teams, there's less and less valuable
real estate. And what I can tell you,
and I'm going on the record here, is
that what Melody and Willow, who are
both two incredibly talented people,
they're going to look very smart in
about three or four years in what they
paid, and you'll be having the same
conversation to them, people to Melody
and Willow, and you're going to be
saying, "People paid four times more."
>> Right.
>> That's my predic- I'm going on the
record on that.
>> Oh, I like when you go on the record.
>> Yeah. Now we got it.
>> I guess we're live TV, so I guess we're
already [laughter] on the record, so
there you go.
>> I'm following [clears throat] up a a
little bit on what Jason said, which I'm
fascinated by this.
Like you Like Jason said, you're the
first
private institution, kind of private
equity institution of money, that's a
control partner.
>> I think we're the only one.
>> The only one.
>> US.
>> My question is, on the big three,
>> Yeah.
>> MLB,
NBA, NFL. Do you think in our lifetime,
the three of us, there will ever be
institutional capital that takes full
control of one of those 92 teams?
>> I got to be careful here, but I I'm
going to say,
within these three leagues, it will
happen in our lifetime for the simple
reason that evaluations continue to go
up, which in order for that to happen,
there needs to be hundreds of billions
of dollars of infrastructure and real
estate investment to make that happen.
Just the size of these valuations is
going to get to a point where it's
there's only going to be a finite number
of individuals. So, again, there's no
certainties, but probabilistically, if
you sort of play that through,
you know, I think the leagues will look
at it. Will it happen in our lifetime? I
think anything can happen in our
lifetime. So, I'm going to say,
especially we're going to live a long
time, hopefully, not going to win or
something. But, uh, no, we're
I think it'll happen in our lifetime,
but you have just if any of the
commissioners of those three leagues are
looking for I don't think it'll be
probably one
yeah, probably a long time from from
now. That's what I would say.
>> You'll be mostly surfing and not
investing in that
>> I'm hoping I'm just surfing and not
yeah, exactly.
>> Costa Rica. There you go. All right, you
each have 30 seconds to tell me how
we're going to fix baseball. Go, Alex.
>> Oh boy. Well, here 30 seconds is a lot
of pressure. So, I would say I'm a
contrarian. So, I think the best time
that I've seen in the last 15 years to
invest in baseball is today because the
amount of uncertainty. Uncertainty
around the CBA, are they going to strike
or not? I love that for an investor. The
bet you're going to make is going to get
better, not worse, because right now
it's pretty, you know, tight. And then
the other one is that Rob Manfred's
going to integrate all the regional
rights into one and try to copy what
Roger Goodell's done with the NFL
because the World Series showed us that
if you have the right product, you have
the right teams, you have the right
stars, the right strategy, and good
baseball, we had 53 million people watch
the World Series game seven when you
include the US market, Japan, and
Canada, and it was one of the best I've
ever seen.
>> 30 seconds. I'll throw it out there. I'm
probably going to get some slack for
this, but I'm going to throw out a straw
man on just real quick, okay?
So, first of all, you got to get the
minimum standards up. Minimum salary
across the league, I think you got to do
that. And this is going to be a little
controversial,
but I think that
each team I think you should have a
salary cap, but each team should have
one or two designated players they can
pay whatever they want. So, if you want
to pay someone a billion dollars,
they're worth a billion Shohei Ohtani
worth a billion dollars, you can pay
him. So, you get one, two, three,
something that doesn't upset
the competitive balance, but allows
teams for these superstars
to make what they earn, and you put all
that together, and then you get people
like on the TV deal and media rights
aligning interests. So, they're trying
to grow the pie together because it
again, there's a another an
international investment opportunity in
baseball, and they've done a good job
but there's there's a lot more fruit out
there. So I think getting away from the
zero-sum game and trying to align
interest, that would be that would be my
controversial which I'll have 20
>> I jump on one cuz we're out of time.
Really quickly, I would say that from a
union perspective, being a member of
that union for almost 25 years, I think
you want a union that, you know, 70% 80%
of the revenue doesn't go to 10% of the
players but have a more democratic where
everybody gets a little gets to eat a
little bit.
>> Totally.
>> All right, it's all happening. Baseball
is back. I'm Waxman. This is really fun.
Thank you so much. Thank you everyone.
>> Thanks.
>> [music]
[music]